Caption: so today we have Boris badroff uh his
Caption: Dev by day and also kite Surfer by day
Caption: otherwise pretending to be a chef by
Caption: cooking whatever dish you found on
Caption: YouTube next up is Boris bedrov and his
Caption: indexing story
Caption: cool
Caption: hello
Caption: all right cool coming through all right
Caption: it's all right
Caption: um is that coming through yep cool all
Caption: right hey guys I'm Boris so I'm an
Caption: engineer at bgw I've been working in the
Caption: industry for roughly four years
Caption: and for the majority of their experience
Caption: um
Caption: I have known indexes as they make a
Caption: database go fast and that was the extent
Caption: of my knowledge
Caption: so we had some issues with an
Caption: application that I was working on and it
Caption: was ah okay we're gonna use an index
Caption: so I got compelled hey let's figure out
Caption: what this is
Caption: so today what are we learning when we
Caption: learn about indexes how do they work
Caption: indexing techniques and how to debug
Caption: indexes
Caption: so this will be going off postgres's
Caption: implementation of indexes but this is
Caption: relatively a high level talk so the
Caption: concept should translate over to other
Caption: databases as well
Caption: um shout out to the sponsors today for
Caption: making today possible and also to the
Caption: volunteers and AV team are everything uh
Caption: for keeping everything organized
Caption: right
Caption: today
Caption: we are doing some work we I are a
Caption: website recipe aggregator we get
Caption: something like Reddit hack news we get
Caption: recipes from other places and we display
Caption: them for everyone to see
Caption: cool so we're working on a product we're
Caption: working on a future we're going to be
Caption: generating some reports with some
Caption: queries essentially so we're going to be
Caption: working with one table today it'll look
Caption: something like this
Caption: quite straightforward if you're not sure
Caption: what generated always as identity means
Caption: it just is an incrementary number that
Caption: the database does automatically for you
Caption: so it's always going to be unique
Caption: and some example data that we have here
Caption: minutes is in clicking times in minutes
Caption: as well and yeah so we've got roughly
Caption: around a million rows today so it's not
Caption: a huge table but it's decent enough to
Caption: illustrate
Caption: so we're working with products the first
Caption: feature we want uh uses our query
Caption: something like this which is somewhat
Caption: straightforward
Caption: let's do some testing so div is it okay
Caption: cool
Caption: that's got a prod
Caption: now let's deploy
Caption: huh it didn't work right I wonder why
Caption: let's revert the change let's go back
Caption: and let's talk about what what did we
Caption: just do
Caption: I'm going to give you a cooking book and
Caption: I want you to keep this for the rest of
Caption: the talk so I ask you hey can I can you
Caption: find me all recipes of garlic go through
Caption: the book we go Okay g sorry not g you go
Caption: through the book you have to go through
Caption: the whole book page by Page by Page by
Caption: Page all the way to the end because you
Caption: don't know maybe that last page has a
Caption: recipe with garlic but you don't know so
Caption: you have to go through the entire book
Caption: so that's called a sequential scan
Caption: so we do a little bit of Googling and
Caption: obviously I'm here to talk to you about
Caption: indexes so let's use an index let's get
Caption: this over and done with I get the syntax
Caption: that overflow tells me this is correct I
Caption: will always trust them obviously cool
Caption: Davis again fine it's got a prod it's
Caption: done easy okay well what do we just do
Caption: so again cookbook
Caption: I give you the cookbook and conveniently
Caption: it has a thing well got an index right
Caption: which translates to databases so go to
Caption: the index go down you go to G find
Caption: garlic and you'll find all the recipes
Caption: that have garlic and then you have the
Caption: page numbers and then you can go to the
Caption: book and you find all the recipes that
Caption: have garlic much quicker than going
Caption: through the whole book so something like
Caption: so we have two recipes with garlic
Caption: chicken roast and garlic bread on pages
Caption: 800 and Pages six
Caption: so before I explain databases let's talk
Caption: a little bit about Ferry what is an
Caption: index well in this case so there's a few
Caption: different types of indexes here
Caption: default is B tree and I think it's every
Caption: database is the Fault a b tree there's a
Caption: whole bunch of others but they're very
Caption: complicated I'm not going to cover them
Caption: so e tree
Caption: what does it look like okay so at the
Caption: top we have the root node
Caption: at the bottom we have the leaf nodes
Caption: and you can notice it's kind of ordered
Caption: with the smallest numbers at the left
Caption: biggest numbers at the right
Caption: and B tree is balance three not a binary
Caption: tree
Caption: so searching
Caption: uh searching insertion and deletion is
Caption: all login as long as it remains balanced
Caption: the database will do that for you so you
Caption: don't need to worry about that balance
Caption: meaning from the root note the top note
Caption: to the bottom node for all bottom nodes
Caption: is the same amount of noise to climb up
Caption: that means it's balanced
Caption: so say searching I want to find Value
Caption: 999 which is at the bottom so I start at
Caption: the root node
Caption: 999 is greater than 800. so we've got a
Caption: 900 999 is greater than 900 so we go to
Caption: 999. found our value
Caption: okay
Caption: so how's it working how's this actually
Caption: work right so remember we've had the
Caption: cookbook index so in database world we
Caption: went and found our value
Caption: of 111
Caption: and what it had there essentially is
Caption: well you can look at it as has a row ID
Caption: and that row ID is actually the database
Caption: ID and it goes to this row ID I'm sorry
Caption: it gets the one one it gives us variety
Caption: and it actually goes back to the table
Caption: and gets the rest of the information
Caption: which is a lot faster than you know
Caption: sequentially scanning it's kind of like
Caption: a cookbook you didn't have the whole
Caption: recipe in the index you just had go to
Caption: this page number and go find it
Caption: so enough Theory right it's kind of
Caption: boring let's make this quite practical
Caption: tell me what to index okay
Caption: let's do something really generic
Caption: wear or join index it the primary Keys
Caption: your unique constraints will be
Caption: automatically indexed but like
Caption: everything else in software well
Caption: it's not that straightforward obviously
Caption: so the point I'm going to hammer in
Caption: today is know your queries know your
Caption: queries are expensive or long running
Caption: the most executed queries and your most
Caption: important queries that will give you the
Caption: starting ground when uh where to create
Caption: your indexes
Caption: so that comes kind of to the next Point
Caption: well why not just index all the indexes
Caption: right wanna just do absolutely
Caption: everything
Caption: well there's trade-offs with indexes
Caption: let's think the cookbook we did a very
Caption: simple one index on ingredient but let's
Caption: say I then do Cuisine I do category I do
Caption: the maybe uh the chef how long it takes
Caption: and your index is just going to keep
Caption: going in size and keep going in size and
Caption: now your index is bigger than the book
Caption: so it came kind of useless
Caption: and you have to think okay there's also
Caption: insertions so let's imagine a book again
Caption: if I tell you hey
Caption: um here's your new recipe with garlic
Caption: you go okay sure you put that recipe in
Caption: your book you update your book with this
Caption: recipe and then you have to go to the
Caption: index and update the index as well so
Caption: this is if you have too many indexes
Caption: it's just going to get longer and longer
Caption: and longer in short
Caption: indexes give you increased read speed
Caption: decreased write speed
Caption: so
Caption: now you might think okay well why not
Caption: okay we know that we shouldn't index
Caption: everything but how do I know I don't
Caption: want to risk like having a poor
Caption: performance you know your company is
Caption: going to start losing money it's not
Caption: really nice to deploy something sit
Caption: there waiting anxiously is it going to
Caption: be okay or not
Caption: so again know your queries do your
Caption: queries need to be fast
Caption: and what are they for so announcements
Caption: there for reports are reports time
Caption: critical do they need to actually
Caption: execute instantly
Caption: generally I'd say no I mean for the
Caption: purposes of talk we want them but
Caption: um in that case no do you ever read
Caption: replica maybe like a database they can
Caption: bear the extra load of reading well then
Caption: maybe you don't need them
Caption: now when it comes to say application do
Caption: you have observable observability and
Caption: alerting on your application that can
Caption: indicate poor performance do you have a
Caption: way to deploy this feature to a small
Caption: subset of customers first and see what's
Caption: going on before making a call to deploy
Caption: to everyone if you have something like
Caption: that then you can hold off on
Caption: pre-indexing but again it comes down to
Caption: knowing your queries how much data is
Caption: there
Caption: alrighty so more work time which means
Caption: more indexes to create
Caption: but
Caption: there's a few caveats here so first
Caption: thing you might have noticed Devil's
Caption: okay but prod wasn't there's quite a few
Caption: factors that come to affect this sort of
Caption: thing first of all is a hardware that
Caption: your database is running on is it going
Caption: to influence your results
Caption: the volume of data so generally you're
Caption: going to have a smaller sub set of data
Caption: locally or in div compared to prod and
Caption: the distribution distribution of data is
Caption: also extremely important as well
Caption: so there's something to keep in mind
Caption: when you're when you have indexes in
Caption: different environments and stuff like
Caption: that and even some of these results
Caption: today you'll see
Caption: um a bit skewed because I've just put
Caption: this data on my machine
Caption: okay
Caption: so first thing I want to cover is
Caption: creating an index is the correct way so
Caption: I showed you this but you're never going
Caption: to do this because this locks the
Caption: database against rights to that table
Caption: which in production at least my
Caption: experience that's usually well not very
Caption: good so we add concurrently and what
Caption: this does
Caption: um does a scale of the table and does
Caption: unlock the doesn't lock it and gets
Caption: everything and it kind of does it again
Caption: afterwards to get capture all the
Caption: missing transactions from before it's
Caption: very high level it gets a bit more
Caption: complicated than that but that's the
Caption: gist of it and there are queries that
Caption: you can actually run to see is your
Caption: index still being created or not
Caption: um it's long and it's ugly Google it if
Caption: you want it but that's the gist of it
Caption: okay
Caption: before we do some work we also have to
Caption: talk about debugging so the cool thing
Caption: with databases is you can go to and say
Caption: hey what do you think you're going to do
Caption: and then you can also tell hey what are
Caption: you going to do um what I what did you
Caption: actually do and then you can compare
Caption: them and make judgment calls on that
Caption: so in postgres we prefix our query with
Caption: explain
Caption: and that's essentially time post goes
Caption: hey what do you think you're going to do
Caption: here now you might be thinking okay
Caption: how does it know what it thinks it's
Caption: going to do this is a very complicated
Caption: topic and blindly put this is a talk on
Caption: its own it's I went on a bit of a rabbit
Caption: hole in this and it's absolutely
Caption: incredible how it does it it uses all
Caption: sorts of statistics and stored in the
Caption: table to make this course
Caption: so let's look at what this kind of looks
Caption: like
Caption: so
Caption: at the top we have you can see here cost
Caption: that first number is the cost to find
Caption: the first node our first row then the
Caption: next number which is 13 000 something
Caption: something something that's the cost to
Caption: find all rows what it estimates to be
Caption: the funny part about this and this is a
Caption: quote from a person's documentation you
Caption: might be thinking okay what does that
Caption: number represent
Caption: it's an arbitrary unit so it differs on
Caption: your laptop and a bunch of things there
Caption: is a long formula uses like the hardware
Caption: or your laptop of your computer all
Caption: sorts of stuff to try and figure it out
Caption: um so it's not particularly useful you
Caption: could say
Caption: then we have how many rows that things
Caption: match this condition and the width of
Caption: each row which is in bytes if I remember
Caption: correctly and then we could see it did a
Caption: parallel sequential scan
Caption: which is what we talked about before
Caption: which isn't good and it's going to do
Caption: that it's wise because Force 12 times 2
Caption: is roughly that
Caption: um and then a filter
Caption: then with the index scan it's kind of
Caption: similar nothing too different than the
Caption: important part here we can see it says
Caption: index scan
Caption: so
Caption: well let's do something a bit more
Caption: interesting here
Caption: let's see what it actually does
Caption: okay so now we're pretty quick to
Caption: explain analyze analyze will tell hey
Caption: can you run the curry too please so we
Caption: can compare
Caption: and what you can see here is after say
Caption: on the top line after The Gather we have
Caption: another one which says actual time
Caption: that's in milliseconds
Caption: so that's the time it takes to find the
Caption: first row that matches the condition and
Caption: a time to find all rows of magic
Caption: condition
Caption: and then we are parallels sequential
Caption: scan how long it took and then we can
Caption: see here is remote rows removed by
Caption: filter that's an interesting part here
Caption: two lines above size Loops three so
Caption: that's times three that filtered out the
Caption: vast majority of the table so we
Caption: generally say that's an absolute ideal
Caption: candidate for an index when we see
Caption: something like this and this took 33
Caption: milliseconds
Caption: now
Caption: let's see how fast an index is
Caption: whoops
Caption: it was 11.8 milliseconds so that was a
Caption: third of the time of the sequential scan
Caption: and we can see it says index scanners
Caption: before we have all the stuff
Caption: as well index condition but I just want
Caption: to highlight
Caption: the time that it took and how much
Caption: faster it was
Caption: Okay so
Caption: now we've done a little bit of very very
Caption: high level of the query planner let's do
Caption: some more work let's see if we can learn
Caption: more about this so now product devices
Caption: hey we don't just want author idea we
Caption: also want Source ID which is where we're
Caption: getting that because we're aggregated
Caption: we're getting these uh these recipes
Caption: from different sources and stuff like
Caption: that so our query is going to be
Caption: something like so
Caption: okay cool
Caption: you can see here we did this with no
Caption: index and we can see 27 milliseconds and
Caption: obviously it's going to filter a lot
Caption: more rows this time there's only 12 rows
Caption: of matching condition which is right at
Caption: the top to the right
Caption: cool alrighty
Caption: so we create an index and you can see
Caption: here it's multi-column index
Caption: the order that you specify the columns
Caption: here is extremely important and I'm
Caption: going to explain a little bit more but
Caption: let's first see how fast this is
Caption: so from 27 milliseconds to 0.2
Caption: milliseconds
Caption: that is lining fast that is a pretty
Caption: huge change so that's quite nice right
Caption: let's talk about how I said the order so
Caption: we said
Caption: multi-column index first second I said
Caption: indexes are ordered so what does that
Caption: mean well if I create an index on author
Caption: ID then Source ID what it kind of looks
Caption: like is if I go to 111 let's use the
Caption: cookbook example I'll go to the the ID
Caption: or one one one I find it then inside of
Caption: it it's all going to be ordered by The
Caption: Source ID
Caption: okay cool what does this mean
Caption: practically okay so we created this
Caption: multi-com index
Caption: and if I want to query on Authority
Caption: Source ID it works fine because I can go
Caption: to 111 and other than that I have 40
Caption: right
Caption: if I want to do just on author ID that's
Caption: going to work too because well it's
Caption: ordered first by author ID right
Caption: but if I ask
Caption: if I write a query and it's like hey can
Caption: you get it by just Source ID well no
Caption: that's not going to work because think
Caption: of the book it's order by author ID so
Caption: one one you have a bunch of other IDs
Caption: there within the source code is if I
Caption: want to find 40 I won't have to scan
Caption: every single author and find 40. at that
Caption: point the index is useless you might as
Caption: well just do a sequential scan
Caption: cool
Caption: so what are the other options we can
Caption: databases are cool you can create two
Caption: single column indexes and it will
Caption: combine them for you automatically which
Caption: is pretty incredible okay
Caption: I've skipped something here
Caption: selectivity and cardinality the two
Caption: concepts and indexes are extremely
Caption: important so what are they selectivity
Caption: is give it a a value for that you're
Caption: searching for how many rows does it
Caption: return as a proportion of the table
Caption: something like recipe ID which is the
Caption: primary key so it's Unique is going to
Caption: have a very high selectivity because
Caption: realistically there's going to be one
Caption: row with it
Caption: then you have cardinality and
Caption: cardinality is given a value how many um
Caption: given a column how many possible values
Caption: are there for a column so maybe for
Caption: something like Source ID
Caption: that's going to be a low cardinality if
Caption: we have maybe 10 sources that we always
Caption: get
Caption: something like recipe ID author ID will
Caption: have a very high cardinality because
Caption: there's a lot of possible values well
Caption: okay
Caption: why is this important
Caption: essentially
Caption: forgive my absolutely beautiful diagram
Caption: but
Caption: when you search on something like Source
Caption: ID let's imagine that Source ID returns
Caption: roughly half of the table
Caption: okay remember I said it's a two-step
Caption: process here you go to the index
Caption: from the index you get the recent
Caption: information
Caption: if I'm going to be going through if I'm
Caption: getting half the values that's half the
Caption: index or half the table
Caption: what's the point going the index that's
Caption: what's going to be slower I might as
Caption: well just go directly to the table and
Caption: that's what a database will do
Caption: the rule of thumb generally is um
Caption: if you're returning more than 10 to 15
Caption: of your table your index is not going to
Caption: be any good
Caption: okay
Caption: know your queries so what does this mean
Caption: we've covered we've had the multi-common
Caption: dicks which is quite fast we saw and we
Caption: can combine the indexes but we can
Caption: actually because Source ID and index on
Caption: Source ID is kind of useless it's
Caption: pointless it's not selective enough okay
Caption: so
Caption: this is where we think what are our
Caption: queries okay so Authority
Caption: how often are we going to be querying
Caption: author ID and then something else
Caption: we talk to product we look at our code
Caption: and we see we do it quite a bit actually
Caption: we do Source author ID and number 18 so
Caption: quite a few bunch of others
Caption: so we're not we can't just create a
Caption: whole bunch of multi-com indexes because
Caption: that's pretty inefficient right
Caption: that's kind of a waste essentially well
Caption: it's a decent Middle Ground here
Caption: which is just create an index on
Caption: Authority and that will be flexible it
Caption: will serve all your queries and
Caption: oops it's going to be relatively fast
Caption: it's still going to be 0.9 milliseconds
Caption: versus 0.2 keeping in mind without the
Caption: index at all it was 28 milliseconds so
Caption: that's still really fast essentially
Caption: and what you see here what it does is we
Caption: go to our book I go to author id11 I
Caption: grab all the values there and then I
Caption: filter all the values out that don't
Caption: meet the source ID of 40.
Caption: cool all right
Caption: so more work
Caption: we want popular recipes for an author
Caption: okay kind of similar before we say
Caption: um author ID equals this and num ratings
Caption: greater than five thousand okay it's a
Caption: little bit different now instead of two
Caption: qualities we have a range query
Caption: I've created this index here
Caption: it's actually wrong I'm going to explain
Caption: a little bit why it's wrong but it's
Caption: also very deceptive and it can catch you
Caption: up quite easily in this case
Caption: this will use the index
Caption: it's in 2.8 milliseconds
Caption: which is pretty reasonable
Caption: and you think okay that's good but if I
Caption: create this in the correct order
Caption: which is the columns are now the other
Caption: way
Caption: it was half the time
Caption: you can imagine that this scales out
Caption: there's only a million rows it's just I
Caption: haven't really fully randomly
Caption: distributed the data that sort of stuff
Caption: this can scale very quickly and becomes
Caption: extremely it can become an issue that
Caption: you will not spot easily you think if
Caption: it's using the index why isn't it doing
Caption: it
Caption: so the way to think about this is you
Caption: want to reduce the amount of the index
Caption: to scan
Caption: so on the left we have the incorrect
Caption: index and what it does is for I said if
Caption: you remember remember from before it
Caption: will go first it's going to go num
Caption: ratings greater than 5000. it turns out
Caption: when you do that it scans a decent
Caption: amount of the index
Caption: whereas if I have along the correct
Caption: index which is author idea one one and
Caption: it's quite a selective one as we saw
Caption: before it was only a thousand rows of
Caption: the whole table well that's not much of
Caption: the index it has to scan
Caption: so that's going to be much more
Caption: efficient if you think of the cookbook
Caption: if I give you numbers Grant 5000 go to
Caption: the book okay number readings okay five
Caption: thousand okay I've got to go now I know
Caption: everything
Caption: after that is greater than five thousand
Caption: I have to scan all of that and figure
Caption: out where the author ideas whereas I'll
Caption: go author id11 I go I find Authority one
Caption: one and all my values are there it's a
Caption: very small portion of the table we have
Caption: to scan it's going to be more efficient
Caption: so what's it say from that index one
Caption: equalities then ranges if you do that
Caption: you will avoid this issue biting you
Caption: essentially if you're lucky
Caption: um that query before the wrong one it
Caption: will just do a sequential scan but if
Caption: you you can see that it can still use it
Caption: index sometimes and it won't be as
Caption: efficient
Caption: okay
Caption: can we do this a bit better hmm
Caption: what do I mean by that let's look at
Caption: this query first of all we're selecting
Caption: everything do we need everything
Caption: I talked to product the products like no
Caption: no no we just want the recipe ID please
Caption: that's good enough
Caption: sure
Caption: okay so remember I said it's a two-step
Caption: process right so I need to get all the
Caption: values that fulfill this filter
Caption: but then I need to go to the Heap or the
Caption: table
Caption: um the same thing essentially then I've
Caption: got a table to get the rest of the row
Caption: or what I've selected what if I could
Caption: tell I'll query or I'll index to say hey
Caption: can you also Chuck recipe ID and index
Caption: and don't go to the Heap and it'll be
Caption: faster
Caption: so that's called a covering index these
Caption: are including postgres 11 and onwards
Caption: before you have to do a multi-column
Caption: index which is an overly great
Caption: admittedly but that's what it kind of
Caption: looks like and we can see here we've
Caption: told it hey can you just put receive ID
Caption: with my index please and if you only
Caption: select on recipe ID now you can do an
Caption: index scan well actually index only scan
Caption: that's the important part to note here
Caption: it's an index only scan we see it took
Caption: 1.09 seconds it might not seem like a
Caption: huge Improvement here it's because it's
Caption: on my laptop it's not a huge amount of
Caption: data realistically so it's all 20 game
Caption: this will scale very quickly
Caption: but one thing you might notice here is
Caption: Heap fetches so Heap is a table right or
Caption: zero hair but okay why is that why is
Caption: there a heap there so
Caption: essentially what happens is at a very
Caption: this is a very high level explanation
Caption: just for the record it's a bit more
Caption: complicated than this when it goes to
Caption: the index it gets the value and postgres
Caption: like hey has this been updated recently
Caption: and if it turns out if it has it has to
Caption: go to the Heap and get this new value so
Caption: if you updated that row constantly and
Caption: you run this query it will do a bunch of
Caption: Heap fetches which is actually slower
Caption: than an index scan so that is something
Caption: to keep in mind
Caption: okay
Caption: what are
Caption: what is the relation between time and
Caption: rating for recipes or long cooking
Caption: duration so essentially we're trying to
Caption: look at recipes that take longer than a
Caption: day and we want to see the worst rated
Caption: ones for the they have the longest
Caption: duration something like so
Caption: okay cool
Caption: so
Caption: what I mentioned before was
Caption: indexes are ordered
Caption: so if you do a fort what they call
Caption: forward scan it's like ordering like
Caption: this backward scans ordering like this
Caption: what does that mean well
Caption: it means that we can avoid sorting when
Caption: we do a query which saves us a bit of
Caption: time
Caption: okay so let's show let's give me a bit
Caption: of a wallet that's all right
Caption: um
Caption: so you can see here we have a sort key
Caption: and now it's got all these values and
Caption: then it's run a sort on it and that's
Caption: taken 60 60 milliseconds
Caption: but if it was ordered already it
Caption: wouldn't have to do the saw and it'll
Caption: come back faster so first things first
Caption: let's create the index which of course
Caption: I've called it wrong because this won't
Caption: quite work
Caption: um
Caption: okay
Caption: now it's down to 37 milliseconds which
Caption: is a I guess what a decent game but not
Caption: a huge game
Caption: and this is where it's a bit deceptive I
Caption: can see a sort method there but I also
Caption: see an index scan
Caption: okay why I've told it like it's ordered
Caption: why why can't you just give it back to
Caption: me why'd you have to do an extra step I
Caption: well
Caption: essentially when you create an index if
Caption: I create them
Caption: when I create it without this order here
Caption: it's going to create them descending and
Caption: ascending but databases can't scan the
Caption: leading colon and one order in the other
Caption: column in another order you have to
Caption: explicitly Define this to be able to do
Caption: this
Caption: but it's worth noting this is an
Caption: inflexible query now you have to use a
Caption: query like this otherwise it won't you
Caption: won't be using it index efficiently
Caption: now we've gone down to 21 milliseconds
Caption: which is a d quite a decent Improvement
Caption: that was half of the one before which
Caption: had the index scan that was sorting this
Caption: one doesn't you can see it index
Caption: condition you can't even see anything
Caption: about the ordering it just came back
Caption: directly ordered and it's a lot faster
Caption: can we do this one better okay
Caption: I'll index on cooking time it was the
Caption: first uh column that we specified when
Caption: we created this index okay let's
Caption: visualize as you can see my beautiful
Caption: visualization of cooking time
Caption: it turns out
Caption: um sorry
Caption: we are also floating on greater than or
Caption: equal to 1440 which is minutes that's a
Caption: day effectively what does that mean well
Caption: files to represent the values of recipes
Caption: that take more than a day it'll be that
Caption: little tiny black bar at the bottom it
Caption: turns out most recipes take less than a
Caption: day kind of makes sense right usually a
Caption: recipe takes around an hour or less okay
Caption: again know your queries I talk to
Caption: product I look at my code and it turns
Caption: out that the only query we ever have to
Caption: do with cooking time is checking if it
Caption: takes more than a day okay well
Caption: do we need to index everything here what
Caption: if we could just index what we need
Caption: which is recipes that take longer than a
Caption: day
Caption: cool you can see we've essentially
Caption: called what's called a partial index and
Caption: all we had to do was put a filter on it
Caption: after creating the index and that will
Caption: do all its work for us the database
Caption: so when you use these partial indexes
Caption: you have to use the filter here
Caption: otherwise it won't use the index so they
Caption: are kind of inflexible in that regard
Caption: that's where you have to know your
Caption: queries
Caption: and this time admittedly maybe the gains
Caption: don't look as great against my laptop
Caption: it's not a huge data set but it's still
Caption: around I think four milliseconds gain
Caption: off the top of my head so it's still a
Caption: decent gain and nothing really changes
Caption: here
Caption: um it just uses the index that's a lot
Caption: smaller
Caption: so partial index what are they used for
Caption: we use it here to exclude our relevant
Caption: values you can use it to exclude common
Caption: values so good examples are null if you
Caption: don't need null values just exclude null
Caption: values on your index
Caption: in another example you that can come
Caption: through is we're doing reports right
Caption: what if I had a timestamp column and I
Caption: talked to product and products like
Caption: actually it turns out all our reports
Caption: only need data from the last three
Caption: months that's generally how we do these
Caption: sorts of things right
Caption: we could exclude all columns that are
Caption: more than three months old have a
Caption: timestamp that's older than three months
Caption: which would reduce the size of our index
Caption: and as I said before it must use that
Caption: filter defined in the index or not use
Caption: the index at all
Caption: so
Caption: we need to fix some bugs
Caption: product has came back to us and they've
Caption: kind of been like hey the data's not
Caption: quite matching up we have some queries
Caption: that filter one category
Caption: um there's this experiment thing that's
Caption: a tiny tiny portion of the table so it's
Caption: very high selectivity okay no worries
Caption: I find one of the queries here and it
Caption: looks something like this
Caption: um I figure out oh it's a casing the
Caption: casing is not correct okay no worries
Caption: let's fix this easily I put on this
Caption: I deploy it
Caption: it doesn't work okay I think well the
Caption: index is there why is there sequential
Caption: scanning I don't understand it it was
Caption: there right like come on what the hell
Caption: okay sure
Caption: what the database sees here is a magic
Caption: Black Box it doesn't know that that
Caption: function is actually related to the
Caption: experiment at all I can't figure that
Caption: out it doesn't have that information
Caption: so it has to go okay it doesn't fit the
Caption: index I am now just going to do a
Caption: sequential scan sorry okay cool I can we
Caption: can fix this of course we can we create
Caption: an index an expression index function
Caption: index whatever we want to call it and we
Caption: put the expression inside the index
Caption: definition and now we've done it we
Caption: deploy it
Caption: works all right okay
Caption: some things to consider here
Caption: very expensive
Caption: what happens every time you write to the
Caption: database that fits this index
Caption: or if you update a row it will compute
Caption: the results of that and store it in the
Caption: index so they're not very efficient
Caption: whatsoever
Caption: in general I have set indexes uh you
Caption: know increase read speed decreased write
Caption: speed but these are even more heavy so
Caption: do be careful with them I would don't
Caption: use them just because
Caption: and I've used here maybe a bit of a
Caption: contrived example but
Caption: know your queries so
Caption: where this can bite you is rrms orms can
Caption: easily bite you here you might not even
Caption: realize it's putting a lower on your on
Caption: your query and you think what the hell's
Caption: not using Index this is ridiculous then
Caption: you look at the Ireland's query like
Caption: I see why
Caption: um time stamps anything any function
Caption: postgres function will have the same
Caption: issue so always so keep that in mind
Caption: okay
Caption: so we're kind of getting to the end of
Caption: this now and we've talked we've done a
Caption: bunch of work referring the kind of
Caption: query planner very high level
Caption: um obviously it's one of those things
Caption: that gets complicated extremely quick
Caption: and I was trying to keep this somewhat
Caption: short without going too deep into some
Caption: things
Caption: so
Caption: let's think okay why isn't your index
Caption: being used well simply the database
Caption: can't use the index
Caption: or the things using index is slower
Caption: one of the reasons so I've covered a few
Caption: reasons the first two I haven't covered
Caption: so table is too small
Caption: um rule if I'm if your table is two
Caption: pages pages eight kilobytes it will not
Caption: use the index the way to think about it
Caption: is a five month cookbook has three pages
Caption: and one page index what's going to be
Caption: faster you just might as well go through
Caption: a table right I mean through the through
Caption: the book right it's gonna be faster than
Caption: going through the index
Caption: and the operator is another sneaky one
Caption: so this is something that's going to be
Caption: dependent on your database documentation
Caption: will tell you same off the top of my
Caption: head would be I like is not supported by
Caption: B trees and postgres so be wary of those
Caption: sorts of things
Caption: and we've talked about these which was
Caption: crew returning too many rows your index
Caption: is not selective enough it will not use
Caption: the index you're using your multi-column
Caption: index incorrectly or even inefficiently
Caption: and then we have function indexes being
Caption: used incorrectly
Caption: but honestly
Caption: your database knows best yes there are
Caption: edge cases I haven't covered them here
Caption: because they're quite Technical and
Caption: require quite an in-depth knowledge of
Caption: everything but
Caption: with my journey with indexes going from
Caption: someone who didn't know anything about
Caption: them at all to now I kind of realized
Caption: database is honestly kind of magic it's
Caption: an absolute miracle that these things
Caption: work as well as they do without any
Caption: issues it's we stand on the shoulders of
Caption: giants when it comes to these things so
Caption: do keep that in mind
Caption: okay
Caption: so I kind of said some of these things
Caption: I'll go on surface level
Caption: um gets a bit more complicated which
Caption: might sound a bit of a cop out I've
Caption: included some stuff here if you're like
Caption: I want to learn more please give me more
Caption: so first thing will be multiversion
Caption: concurrency control that's how we update
Caption: the same table times how to keep things
Caption: updated
Caption: vacuuming is how is counter related to
Caption: that
Caption: and then the last one which is how does
Caption: your database calculate the statistics
Caption: how does it use the statistics and query
Caption: planning and you can add to the
Caption: understanding the query planner even
Caption: deeper
Caption: um that was like a ridiculously high
Caption: level overview with a query player it
Caption: gets much much much more complicated
Caption: extremely quick
Caption: so we'll look
Caption: um post-gress documentation is actually
Caption: incredible it's very in-depth maybe not
Caption: the most prettiest thing to read but it
Caption: does the job there's a really good site
Caption: called user index Luke like the guide
Caption: that is a database was it as far as I'm
Caption: concerning explains absolutely
Caption: everything in depth there's an article
Caption: and everything and it's really worth
Caption: giving it a read
Caption: and
Caption: yeah so what what's the takeaways from
Caption: this
Caption: know your queries again what are your
Caption: most important queries most executed
Caption: queries what are your expensive queries
Caption: with that knowledge you should be able
Caption: to judge what index you should create
Caption: what are the trails of you creating
Caption: index on the choices that you've made
Caption: from creating that index and from then
Caption: it's going to be a bit easier
Caption: that's all for today
Caption: um thank you I hope you enjoyed my talk
Caption: [Applause]
Caption: thanks Boris and thanks everyone for
Caption: coming
Caption: oh cool okay
Caption: yeah cool questions
Caption: uh for the creating the indexed and
Caption: using the concurrently keyword is that
Caption: only for when you're creating an index
Caption: after you've created the table or yes so
Caption: you'll need to create index after table
Caption: so
Caption: um you can't do a migration that creates
Caption: table and creates index it won't work
Caption: you have to do it afterwards
Caption: foreign
Caption: you said there was a a slight
Caption: hit if you have a if you create an index
Caption: there's a increased write time in order
Caption: to build that index do you know sort of
Caption: what numbers around that we're talking
Caption: milliseconds seconds minutes
Caption: um it's a very good question it depends
Caption: yeah
Caption: um I maybe I forgot to put the
Caption: disclaimer um a lot of this stuff it's
Caption: hard to quantify because it just depends
Caption: on a lot of variables what what what's
Caption: the machine your database is running on
Caption: how much data does it has the
Caption: distribution of the data there's lots of
Caption: factors that come into this
Caption: um so I can't just give you a percentage
Caption: because it just depends way too much but
Caption: it will make a right slower and the more
Caption: indexes you have on a table it's going
Caption: to get worse rule of thumb I'll kind of
Caption: say if you see more than five indexes on
Caption: a table it's a bit smelly that doesn't
Caption: look right
Caption: I think the talk really enjoyed it I'm
Caption: just going to ask if you have any let me
Caption: really real life examples of how you've
Caption: used queries and maybe some of the foot
Caption: guns you've encountered
Caption: um yeah I do we have a few yeah
Caption: um one example we have a two I can't
Caption: give you the numbers off the top on my
Caption: head unfortunately but we have a few
Caption: well we have one that just would not run
Caption: it all the query just would not return
Caption: um completely stopped our processes so I
Caption: think it was a two billion row table
Caption: and we chucked the index on it and it
Caption: runs I think in roughly a second now
Caption: and that was it was a simple index too
Caption: but yeah there's been a few
Caption: um things that we've done
Caption: thank you so much
Caption: um
Caption: I have a question with it's slightly
Caption: related to index so
Caption: um it's to do with the postgres specific
Caption: random page cost and sequential page I
Caption: think it was random page cost and the
Caption: other was subsequential yeah
Caption: um have you ever
Caption: um played with that yep
Caption: um I kind of avoided it but uh not
Caption: deliberately um I talked a bit with
Caption: someone who's a database God in our
Caption: company and gave me a bunch of advice so
Caption: random page classes while the cost
Caption: essentially using index because it's
Caption: random rather than you know going
Caption: through the table you're kind of like
Caption: randomly going to the table
Caption: um these days it used to be a bigger
Caption: issue back in the day with the old hard
Caption: drives we have ssds now
Caption: um the recommendations from the uh
Caption: Aurora guide people at Amazon is Europe
Caption: reduce so sorry defaults uh
Caption: sequential page cost is one random is
Caption: four so they're Aurora the people of
Caption: Aurora actually I recommend Aura
Caption: database from AWS there you actually
Caption: recommend dropping your random page cost
Caption: to 1.5 or two I believe off the top of
Caption: my head because we don't have hard
Caption: drives that's sick on a needle we have
Caption: ssds which are ridiculously faster
Caption: essentially
Caption: um do you have any suggestions on how to
Caption: safely like test indexes in production
Caption: or like a A system that needs to stay up
Caption: fingers crossed
Caption: uh no that's yes that's a very hard one
Caption: and unfortunately it's just one other
Caption: so okay there are some ways actually I
Caption: can give you if you have the same amount
Caption: of data and div as in prod the
Caption: distribution needs to be the same too
Caption: you'll actually get very similar results
Caption: not timing wise there are other things
Caption: you could do which get a bit complicated
Caption: um buffers are something to look at
Caption: which is i o work done but even then
Caption: it gets even trickier because it's some
Caption: things like a farmer understanding these
Caption: queries again and again and again you'll
Caption: see the times change varying because of
Caption: caching the database casing actually has
Caption: cases in operating system
Caption: um so you can still use it as a judgment
Caption: call if we'll be performing or not what
Caption: you could do if you really want you
Caption: create the um I don't know if your
Caption: company allows this but you can create
Caption: your index you can log on to the
Caption: production database create it manually
Caption: test your query manually if you can
Caption: build a load and see if it actually be
Caption: efficient that's one way I've seen or
Caption: doing if you're really not sure but um
Caption: that comes down to just if you can
Caption: deploy to a small subset of customers
Caption: and just see hey what's the impact here
Caption: can we and can we roll back quickly that
Caption: sort of stuff
Caption: uh I just had a quick question about the
Caption: um specific data types that a database
Caption: column could have um would indexing
Caption: um affect that at any point or should I
Caption: say with the type effect indexing so
Caption: whether it be a date on time whether it
Caption: be a Json object yeah yeah um do not
Caption: create indexes on Json
Caption: it's okay um I know we've tried to do it
Caption: and it's not very efficient there are
Caption: other indexes you can use but it's a bit
Caption: hard to do from my understanding is the
Caption: the size of the the value gets very
Caption: important this is at a very large scale
Caption: when you're talking like billions of
Caption: billions of rows that's when if your
Caption: index on like an end switches I can't
Caption: remember what the size is a postgres
Caption: versus the other ones I can't remember
Caption: they're a bit smaller you can see huge
Caption: increases in times depending on that and
Caption: that's where you have to be careful
Caption: covering indexes like you don't want to
Caption: put a Json B column and covering index
Caption: because that's going to make it index
Caption: gigantic what's the point awesome thank
Caption: you
Caption: anyone else
Caption: cool thank you everyone
Caption: thank you
Caption: so the next Talk starts at 12 20.